README.md, before:

## Website Performance Optimization portfolio project

Your challenge, if you wish to accept it (and we sure hope you will), is to optimize this online portfolio for speed! In particular, optimize the critical rendering path and make this page render as quickly as possible by applying the techniques you've picked up in the [Critical Rendering Path course](https://www.udacity.com/course/ud884).

To get started, check out the repository, inspect the code,

### Getting started

Some useful tips to help you get started:

1. Check out the repository
1. To inspect the site on your phone, you can run a local server

  ```bash
  $> cd /path/to/your-project-folder
  $> python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8080
  ```

1. Open a browser and visit localhost:8080
1. Download and install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to make your local server accessible remotely.

  ``` bash
  $> cd /path/to/your-project-folder
  $> ngrok 8080
  ```

1. Copy the public URL ngrok gives you and try running it through PageSpeed Insights! [More on integrating ngrok, Grunt and PageSpeed.](http://www.jamescryer.com/2014/06/12/grunt-pagespeed-and-ngrok-locally-testing/)

Profile, optimize, measure... and then lather, rinse, and repeat. Good luck!

### Optimization Tips and Tricks
* [Optimizing Performance](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/ "web performance")
* [Analyzing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp.html "analyzing crp")
* [Optimizing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/optimizing-critical-rendering-path.html "optimize the crp!")
* [Avoiding Rendering Blocking CSS](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/render-blocking-css.html "render blocking css")
* [Optimizing JavaScript](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/adding-interactivity-with-javascript.html "javascript")
* [Measuring with Navigation Timing](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/measure-crp.html "nav timing api"). We didn't cover the Navigation Timing API in the first two lessons but it's an incredibly useful tool for automated page profiling. I highly recommend reading.
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/eliminate-downloads.html">The fewer the downloads, the better</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/optimize-encoding-and-transfer.html">Reduce the size of text</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/image-optimization.html">Optimize images</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/http-caching.html">HTTP caching</a>

### Customization with Bootstrap
The portfolio was built on Twitter's <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a> framework. All custom styles are in `dist/css/portfolio.css` in the portfolio repo.

* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/css/">Bootstrap's CSS Classes</a>
* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/components/">Bootstrap's Components</a>

### Sample Portfolios

Feeling uninspired by the portfolio? Here's a list of cool portfolios I found after a few minutes of Googling.

* <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/280qkr/would_anybody_like_to_post_their_portfolio_site/">A great discussion about portfolios on reddit</a>
* <a href="http://ianlunn.co.uk/">http://ianlunn.co.uk/</a>
* <a href="http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio">http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio</a>
* <a href="http://www.timboelaars.nl/">http://www.timboelaars.nl/</a>
* <a href="http://futoryan.prosite.com/">http://futoryan.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects">http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects</a>
* <a href="http://colintrenter.prosite.com/">http://colintrenter.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://calebmorris.prosite.com/">http://calebmorris.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.cullywright.com/">http://www.cullywright.com/</a>
* <a href="http://yourjustlucky.com/">http://yourjustlucky.com/</a>
* <a href="http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/">http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/</a>
* <a href="http://www.roxannecook.com/">http://www.roxannecook.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html">http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html</a>

Commit message:

doc: Add Installation and run instructions to README file

README.md, after:

# Website Performance Optimization

The home portfolio page is now optimized to reach **99/100** speed on PageSpeed Insights.

## Installation

1. Clone repository with `git clone https://github.com/ahusseinali/udportfolio.git`
2. Host the _dist_ directory on a local webserver.
3. _web.config_ is made for IIS web server, thus IIS is recommended for maximum PageSpeed score.
4. Download and install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to make your local server accessible remotely.

## Running the hosted page:
1. Open a browser and visit http://localhost:80/<Application Name>/
6. Go to **ngrok** download directory and run `ngrok http 80`.
7. The _Forwarding_ section contains the mapping between localhost and the public url.
8. Copy the public URL ngrok gives you and try running it through PageSpeed Insights.

Profile, optimize, measure... and then lather, rinse, and repeat. Good luck!

### Optimization Tips and Tricks
* [Optimizing Performance](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/ "web performance")
* [Analyzing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/analyzing-crp.html "analyzing crp")
* [Optimizing the Critical Rendering Path](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/optimizing-critical-rendering-path.html "optimize the crp!")
* [Avoiding Rendering Blocking CSS](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/render-blocking-css.html "render blocking css")
* [Optimizing JavaScript](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/adding-interactivity-with-javascript.html "javascript")
* [Measuring with Navigation Timing](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/critical-rendering-path/measure-crp.html "nav timing api"). We didn't cover the Navigation Timing API in the first two lessons but it's an incredibly useful tool for automated page profiling. I highly recommend reading.
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/eliminate-downloads.html">The fewer the downloads, the better</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/optimize-encoding-and-transfer.html">Reduce the size of text</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/image-optimization.html">Optimize images</a>
* <a href="https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/performance/optimizing-content-efficiency/http-caching.html">HTTP caching</a>

### Customization with Bootstrap
The portfolio was built on Twitter's <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a> framework. All custom styles are in `dist/css/portfolio.css` in the portfolio repo.

* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/css/">Bootstrap's CSS Classes</a>
* <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/components/">Bootstrap's Components</a>

### Sample Portfolios

Feeling uninspired by the portfolio? Here's a list of cool portfolios I found after a few minutes of Googling.

* <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/webdev/comments/280qkr/would_anybody_like_to_post_their_portfolio_site/">A great discussion about portfolios on reddit</a>
* <a href="http://ianlunn.co.uk/">http://ianlunn.co.uk/</a>
* <a href="http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio">http://www.adhamdannaway.com/portfolio</a>
* <a href="http://www.timboelaars.nl/">http://www.timboelaars.nl/</a>
* <a href="http://futoryan.prosite.com/">http://futoryan.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects">http://playonpixels.prosite.com/21591/projects</a>
* <a href="http://colintrenter.prosite.com/">http://colintrenter.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://calebmorris.prosite.com/">http://calebmorris.prosite.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.cullywright.com/">http://www.cullywright.com/</a>
* <a href="http://yourjustlucky.com/">http://yourjustlucky.com/</a>
* <a href="http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/">http://nicoledominguez.com/portfolio/</a>
* <a href="http://www.roxannecook.com/">http://www.roxannecook.com/</a>
* <a href="http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html">http://www.84colors.com/portfolio.html</a>
